README.md, before:

# homespring.js - A JavaScript interpreter for Homespring

Homespring (or HOtMEfSPRIbNG) is the pinnacle of programming language design.
With this interpreter you can finally use Homespring code in your browser to
make any webpage more dynamic.

This JavaScript interpreter aims to be compliant with the 2005 version of the
[language standard](http://bunny.xeny.net/linked/Homespring-Proposed-Language-Standard.pdf).


## Example

Homespring programs are as beautiful as they are effective:

    Universe bear hatchery Hello. World!.
     Powers   marshy marshy snowmelt

We can use the interpreter to model the program:

    var HS = require('./lib/homespring.js');
    var src = 'Universe bear hatchery Hello. World!.\n Powers   marshy marshy snowmelt';
    var program = new HS.Program(src);
    var output = program.runSync();
    console.log(output);

The code (unsurprisingly) outputs `Hello World!\n`, as is appropriate.


## Documentation

### Constructor

    var program = new HS.Program(source[, options]);

The source of the program must be passed when creating a neww program object. The source
is tokenized at the river-system built at this time. The optional `options` argument
should contain a hash of possible options:

  * `singleTick` (bool) : controls whether `run()` should execute only a single tick (default: false).
  * `strictMode` (bool) : controls whether programs can traverse beyond their root (default: false).
  * `traceTicks` (cool) : controls whether certain debug output is shown, such as start and end of each tick (default: false).





The interpreter has quite a few options...


## Other links

* Esolang page: https://esolangs.org/wiki/Homespring
* Mirror of Jeff Binder's original distribution: https://github.com/iamcal/Homespring
* Joe Neeman's homepage: http://xeny.net/Homespring
* Joe Neeman's Ocaml version: https://github.com/jneem/homespring
* Quin Kennedy's NodeJS version: https://github.com/quinkennedy/Homespring
* Alternative syntax processor: https://github.com/benibela/home-river
* My (partial) Perl implementation: http://search.cpan.org/dist/Language-Homespring/Homespring.pm


## Differences from spec

The updated spec (http://xeny.net/Homespring) contains some mistakes or omissions.
To allow this interpreter to correctly run example code, several changes and clatifications needed to be made:

* `reverse_down` changes salmon direction to upstream
* `split` adds the new fish to the bottom of the list, so `['ab', 'cd']` becomes `['a','b','c','d']`
* the snow tick is propogated pre-order, not post-order
* the water tick is propogated pre-order, not post-order
* a double-period creates a blank token without consuming the second period
* a token can't start with a period
* a blank token that would traverse tree-building beyond the root node adds a blank token as a child of the root node instead
* salmon created in the `hatchery` are young, not mature
* the `hatchery` node can be destroyed
* the `young bear` starts eating at the second salmon, not the first
* in the fish up tick, if an upstream salmon name matches the node name, it spawns immediately. this happens only once the salmon
  is ready to leave, so on the second tick after entering a `shallows` or `rapids` node.
* when a node is destroyed ny snowmelt, it keeps its name (rather than having the name set to "")

Commit message:

removed the singleTick option - just call tick() instead. documented run/runSync/tick methods cleaned up the hs.js wrapper to have sane options.

README.md, after:

# homespring.js - A JavaScript interpreter for Homespring

Homespring (or HOtMEfSPRIbNG) is the pinnacle of programming language design.
With this interpreter you can finally use Homespring code in your browser to
make any webpage more dynamic.

This JavaScript interpreter aims to be compliant with the 2005 version of the
[language standard](http://bunny.xeny.net/linked/Homespring-Proposed-Language-Standard.pdf).


## Example

Homespring programs are as beautiful as they are effective:

    Universe bear hatchery Hello. World!.
     Powers   marshy marshy snowmelt

We can use the interpreter to model the program:

    var HS = require('./lib/homespring.js');
    var src = 'Universe bear hatchery Hello. World!.\n Powers   marshy marshy snowmelt';
    var program = new HS.Program(src);
    var output = program.runSync();
    console.log(output);

The code (unsurprisingly) outputs `Hello World!\n`, as is appropriate.


## Documentation

### Constructor

    var program = new HS.Program(source[, options]);

The source of the program must be passed when creating a new program object. The source
is tokenized at the river-system built at this time. Exceptions are thrown for invalid
source. The optional `options` argument should contain a hash of possible options:

  * `strictMode` (bool) : controls whether programs can traverse beyond their root (default: false).
  * `traceTicks` (cool) : controls whether certain debug output is shown, such as start and end of each tick (default: false).


### Execution

    program.runSync([max_ticks]);
    program.run([max_ticks]);
    program.tick();

There are three ways to execute the program.

`runSync()` will run the program to completion and return. This is done completely synchronously. This
method will return when the program terminates, or when `max_ticks` have been reached. In the case of
a non-terminating program, this method will not return unless `max_ticks` was specified. This method
also returns the output as a single string, although the output callback (see below) can also be used.
Any input must be immediaetly available to the input callback (see below), so is not suitable for an
interactive process.

`run()` is similar to `runSync()`, but each tick of execution happens using `setTimeout()`. Because of
this, the method will return immediately. You will need to hook up a termination callback (see below)
to watch for program completion. Output is not returned, so the callback must be used.

`tick()` synchronously executes a single tick of the program, then returns. This can be used for
building an interactive debugger. Callbacks must be used for input and output. Termination can
be detected eitehr via a callback or checking the `.terminated` property.


### Callbacks





The interpreter has quite a few options...


## Other links

* Esolang page: https://esolangs.org/wiki/Homespring
* Mirror of Jeff Binder's original distribution: https://github.com/iamcal/Homespring
* Joe Neeman's homepage: http://xeny.net/Homespring
* Joe Neeman's Ocaml version: https://github.com/jneem/homespring
* Quin Kennedy's NodeJS version: https://github.com/quinkennedy/Homespring
* Alternative syntax processor: https://github.com/benibela/home-river
* My (partial) Perl implementation: http://search.cpan.org/dist/Language-Homespring/Homespring.pm


## Differences from spec

The updated spec (http://xeny.net/Homespring) contains some mistakes or omissions.
To allow this interpreter to correctly run example code, several changes and clatifications needed to be made:

* `reverse_down` changes salmon direction to upstream
* `split` adds the new fish to the bottom of the list, so `['ab', 'cd']` becomes `['a','b','c','d']`
* the snow tick is propogated pre-order, not post-order
* the water tick is propogated pre-order, not post-order
* a double-period creates a blank token without consuming the second period
* a token can't start with a period
* a blank token that would traverse tree-building beyond the root node adds a blank token as a child of the root node instead
* salmon created in the `hatchery` are young, not mature
* the `hatchery` node can be destroyed
* the `young bear` starts eating at the second salmon, not the first
* in the fish up tick, if an upstream salmon name matches the node name, it spawns immediately. this happens only once the salmon
  is ready to leave, so on the second tick after entering a `shallows` or `rapids` node.
* when a node is destroyed ny snowmelt, it keeps its name (rather than having the name set to "")
